Deploying Your Website on Firebase for Free:


Step 1: Create a Firebase Account

Before you start deploying your website, you need to have a Firebase account. If you don’t have one yet, you can easily create it by visiting the Firebase website (https://firebase.google.com/) and signing in with your Google account.

Step 2: Set Up a New Project

Once you’re logged in to Firebase, click on the “Go to Console” button to access the Firebase Console. From there, click on the “Add project” button and give your project a name. You can choose to enable Google Analytics if you’d like, but it’s not necessary for deploying a website.

Step 3: Prepare Your Website Files

Before you deploy your website, make sure you have all the necessary files ready. This includes your HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and any other assets (images, fonts, etc.) that your website requires. Organize these files into a folder for easy access.

Step 4: Install the Firebase CLI (Command Line Interface)

To interact with Firebase from your local machine, you’ll need to install the Firebase CLI. Open your terminal or command prompt and run the following command:

    npm install -g firebase-tools


Step 5: Initialize Firebase in Your Project

Navigate to your website’s folder using the terminal and run the following commands to login and initialize Firebase within your project:

    firebase login

    firebase init

This command will prompt you to select the Firebase services you want to use. Choose “Hosting” and follow the on-screen instructions to complete the setup.


Step 6: Deploy Your Website

After initializing Firebase, you’re ready to deploy your website. Simply run the following command in your terminal:

    firebase deploy



Firebase will start the deployment process, and once it’s complete, you’ll receive a deployment URL where your website is now live. You can access your website using this URL.



Step 7: Custom Domain

If you have a custom domain for your website, Firebase allows you to associate it with your deployed site. In the Firebase Console, navigate to the Hosting section and click on the “Add custom domain” option. Follow the instructions to verify ownership of your domain and configure the necessary DNS settings.

